Add a guide for using Origami via npm (#172)
Financial-Times/origami-website: _tutorials/npm.md

## How to avoid multiple versions of Origami in the dependency tree

There is a tool called [lockspot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lockspot) which can be used to report about any packages which are included with more than one version, such as Origami dependencies. E.G. Detecting that `o-table@6` and `o-table@7` are both in the dependency tree.

Below we will set up [lockspot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lockspot) to fail a project which has multiple versions of dependencies from `@financial-times`.

Here is how to use it with an npm/yarn/pnpm project:

1. Create a file called `./scripts/lockspot` and make it executable.

``` bash
> mkdir ./scripts
> touch ./scripts/lockspot
> chmod +x ./scripts/lockspot
```

2. Place this into the `./scripts/lockspot` file.

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
"use strict";

const PACKAGE_LOCK_FILE = "package-lock.json";
const fs = require("fs");
const process = require("process");
const execSync = require("child_process").execSync;

if (!fs.existsSync(PACKAGE_LOCK_FILE)) {
	console.error("Could not find $PACKAGE_LOCK_FILE when running prepare");
	process.exit(1);
}

try {

> 	execSync(`npx lockspot flat --pattern '^@financial-times/' --file "${PACKAGE_LOCK_FILE}"`, {

Reviewer: hmm. this will kick out for every `@financial-times` thing in the `node_modules`. seeing as npm users are putting their back and front-end stuff in the same manifest, it might be a good idea to make this `@financial-times/o-.*`

Author: Done in https://github.com/Financial-Times/is-origami-flat/blob/master/index.js#L19

Reviewer: i think it should be `o-` not `o`, because we only want to match against origami components

Author: Fixed in v1.0.1 -- https://github.com/Financial-Times/is-origami-flat/commit/3e21b348c81126110f80f46357efe55f04251117

---
title: Origami via npm
description: A guide on how to use Origami via npm.
cta: Learn how to Origami via npm
---

# {{page.title}}

If migrating from Bower to npm, [please refer to our migration guide](https://origami.ft.com/docs/tutorials/bower-to-npm/).

## Benefits

- Tooling such as Dependabot/Renovate/Greenkeeper/Snyk will work for the Origami dependencies you have.

- Other tooling which by default only work with npm dependencies will now work without requiring any changes. I.E. Webpack.

## Drawbacks

> - The Origami Team have not finalised how Origami components on npm should work, it is considered not stable.

Author: ```suggestion
- The Origami Team have not finalised how Origami components on npm should work, it is considered not stable and future major releases are likely to change the interface of our npm packages.
```

---
title: Origami via npm
description: A guide on how to use Origami via npm.
cta: Learn how to Origami via npm
---

# {{page.title}}

If migrating from Bower to npm, [please refer to our migration guide](https://origami.ft.com/docs/tutorials/bower-to-npm/).

## Benefits

- Tooling such as Dependabot/Renovate/Greenkeeper/Snyk will work for the Origami dependencies you have.

- Other tooling which by default only work with npm dependencies will now work without requiring any changes. I.E. Webpack.

## Drawbacks

- The Origami Team have not finalised how Origami components on npm should work, it is considered not stable.

- Need to use extra tooling to ensure multiple versions of Origami are not included in the dependency tree.

- Documentation for Origami assumes the Bower interface and not the npm interface. I.E. The package-names don't start with `@financial-times`.

## How to avoid multiple versions of Origami in the dependency tree

> We have built a tool called [lockspot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lockspot) which can be used to report about any dependencies which have multiple versions of themselves, such as Origami dependencies. 

Reviewer: I find this sentence a bit confusing to read. specifically "multiple versions of themselves". 

I'm also a little concerned about the language " we have built a tool" for something I did in my private time in a personal capacity

Author: @chee how about this?

```suggestion
There is a tool called [lockspot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lockspot) which can be used to report about any packages which are included with more than one version, such as Origami dependencies. E.G. Detecting that `o-table@6` and `o-table@7` are both in the dependency tree.
```

Reviewer: that's great !!!
